DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

U.S. Coast Guard
ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORT
FIRST CLASS PETTY OFFICER

INSTRUCTIONS
• Use a pen or pencil.
• Darken the oval completely.

CORRECT MARK

• Do not make any stray marks on this form.

INCORRECT MARKS
●

Reference: (a) Enlisted Accessions, Evaluations, and Advancements, COMDTINST M1000.2 (series)
(b) Enlisted Evaluation System Procedures Manual, PSCINST 1611.2 (series)
MEMBER: Submit a copy of current Rating Performance Qualifications (RPQ); billet assigned competencies, watch quarter station bill assignments; collateral
duties; and significant achievements that are objective, accurate, and timely. Please note significant accomplishments or aspects of performance that occurred
during this marking period.
RATING CHAIN: Review reference (a), reference (b), and other pertinent directives that establish policies and procedures for completing enlisted evaluation
reports and assigning marks against written performance standards. All competencies within each performance factor must be evaluated.
COMMENTS: Written comments are required to support each mark of 1, 2, 3, 7, unsatisfactory conduct, and not ready or not recommended for advancement.
Supporting comments for a 1, 2, 3, or 7 should be in the space provided after each factor, are limited to two lines of text for each competency and should be
concise and provide specific examples of performance or behavior. Written comments for unsatisfactory conduct must be provided on a separate page and must
be specific and sufficient enough to fully describe the conduct that led to an unsatisfactory mark. Written comments for not ready or not recommended for
advancement must be provided on a separate page, and must be specific and sufficient enough to describe why the member is not ready or not recommended
for advancement.
FUTURE POTENTIAL: Required. Provide written, succinct comments describing potential for future leadership responsibilities, including potential to successfully
serve in future special, independent, or command cadre assignments, for all personnel. This block is not a substitute for a command endorsement for such
assignments; commands should seek to limit comments to the extent necessary to describe the member's future leadership potential.
SUPERVISOR: After observing and gathering input on member's performance and behavior, evaluate member's performance against the written performance
standards and recommend marks by darkening the appropriate ovals. Provide the completed report with recommended marks and written comments to the
Marking Official.
MARKING OFFICIAL: Review the marks recommended by the Supervisor and, considering other information on the member's performance and behavior,
recommend marks by darkening the appropriate ovals and entering the numerical equivalent in the “Mark” column. Provide the completed report with
recommended marks and written comments to the Approving Official.
APPROVING OFFICIAL: Review the marks recommended by the Marking Official. Marks not concurred with must be discussed with the Marking Official. To
change a mark, assign the new mark, and change the "Mark" column. Confirm that required written comments are provided when required. Ensure that the
member is counseled on the marks and the member signs the worksheet. Verify that the marks are entered into the Coast Guard Direct Access System and that
the evaluation is marked final within the timeframe specified in reference (a).
1. RATE, FIRST NAME, LAST NAME

2. EMPLOYEE ID #

3. UNIT NAME

4. PERIOD ENDING (MM/DD/YYYY)

5. PAY GRADE

E6
6. REASON (choose only one reason):
REGULAR:
SEMI ANNUAL

UNSCHEDULED (review references to determine when required):
DISCIPLINE
CHANGE OF COMMANDING OFFICER'S RECOMMENDATION
TRANSFER
REDUCTION (OTHER THAN DISCIPLINARY)
SERVICEWIDE EXAM (SWE)
CHANGE IN RATE
PERMANENT RELIEF FOR CAUSE
PROBATION
ADVANCEMENT (DAY PRIOR TO ADVANCEMENT)
CHANGE IN APPROVING OFFICIAL
RESERVE ADOS

CG-3788D (03/18)

Reset

Page 1 of 5

MILITARY: Measures a member's ability to bring credit to the Coast Guard through personal demeanor and professional actions.
MILITARY BEARING: The
degree to which the member
adhered to uniform and grooming
standards, and projected a
professional image that brought
credit to the Coast Guard.
Enforced standards for others.

CUSTOMS, COURTESIES, AND
TRADITIONS: The extent to
which the member conformed to
military customs, courtesies,
traditions and protocols; set and
enforced standards for others.

1

Failed to consistently adhere to
uniform or grooming standards. Set
poor example for others. Failed to
address substandard performance of
subordinates, if assigned.

3

Complied with and enforced uniform
and grooming standards. Projected
a professional image that brought
credit to the Coast Guard.

5

Consistently exceeded standards for
uniform and grooming. Inspired
similar standards in others.
Performance of subordinates, if
assigned, was exceptional.

7

MARK

1

Failed to demonstrate proper military
protocols for customs, courtesies, or
traditions. Failed to address
substandard performance of
subordinates, if assigned.

3

Consistently demonstrated military
protocols for customs, courtesies,
and traditions with respect to rank
and privilege. Consistently set and
enforced standards.

5

Exemplified military protocols for
customs, courtesies, and traditions in
all situations. Inspired similar
standards in others. Performance of
subordinates, if assigned, was
exceptional.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

PERFORMANCE: Measures a member's willingness to acquire knowledge and the ability to use knowledge, skill, and direction to accomplish work.
QUALITY OF WORK: The
degree to which the member
utilized knowledge, skills, and
expertise to effectively organize
and prioritize tasks. Completed
quality work and met customer
needs.

TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:
The degree to which the member
demonstrated technical
competency and proficiency for
rating or current assignment.
Took responsibility for the
development of self and others.

INITIATIVE: The degree to which
the member was a self starter,
acted on new ideas to make
improvements, pursued
opportunities to learn, and sought
additional responsibility.

1

Needed help in prioritizing routine
tasks. Work frequently failed to meet
expectations. Failed to stand proper
watches, if assigned. Repeatedly
failed to meet supervisor or customer
needs.

3

Used training, experience, and
proper procedures to produce
finished work of good quality.
Worked efficiently. Stood
responsible watches, if assigned.
Prioritized and balanced needs of
supervisor and customers.

5

Consistently produced expert-quality
work that exceeded expectations and
standards. Successfully resolved
challenging situations while on duty.
Effectively set priorities for new or
complex tasks. Anticipated and
continually met customer needs.

7

MARK

1

Demonstrated below-standard
knowledge and skill for rate or current
assignment. Failed to acquire or
maintain required qualifications.

3

Demonstrated solid grasp of the
knowledge, skills, and expertise for
rate or current assignment. Met or
maintained required qualifications.
Actively participated in the
professional development of
subordinates, if assigned.

5

Demonstrated mastery of
knowledge, skills, and expertise for
current assignment. Achieved or
maintained advanced qualifications.
Technical expertise significantly
contributed to unit's mission success.
Developed or maintained a robust
plan to ensure the adequate
professional development of
subordinates, if assigned.

7

MARK

1

Avoided additional responsibility.
Required constant supervision to
complete tasks. Implemented and
supported improvements only when
directed to do so.

3

Self-starter. Sought additional
responsibility on own initiative.
Promptly and enthusiastically took
on additional tasks.

5

Repeatedly identified and acted
upon numerous opportunities to
make improvements. Took on
complex tasks or collateral duties
beyond expectations of role. Expertly
managed time with no loss of
productivity.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

CG-3788D (03/18)

Reset

Page 2 of 5

PROFESSIONAL QUALITIES: Measures those qualities the Coast Guard values in its people.
DECISION MAKING AND
PROBLEM SOLVING: The
degree to which the member
made sound decisions and
provided valid recommendations
by using facts, experience, risk
assessment, and analytical
thought.

MILITARY READINESS: The
degree to which the member
effectively identified and
managed stress, and engaged in
activities that promoted physical
fitness and emotional well-being.
Ensured compliance with
personal readiness standards for
self and others.

SELF-AWARENESS AND
LEARNING: The degree to which
the member continued to assess
self, develop professionally,
improve current skills and
knowledge, and acquire new
skills.

TEAM BUILDING: The degree to
which the member contributed to
a group process, worked
cooperatively, and facilitated a
collaborative, inclusive, and
outcome-oriented environment
with others.

1

Displayed poor analysis or reasoning
when making decisions. Postponed
needed action. Indifferent to potential
improvements. Did not reflect on or
learn from mistakes.

3

Solved issues promptly within own
authority and referred others to
supervisor; provided
recommendations based on all
pertinent information. Used facts
and experience, while considering
risk, cost, and time, to make
decisions.

5

Made note-worthy contributions to
improving processes. Used keen
analytical thought to solve complex
problems. Took warranted risks to
achieve positive results. Actions
indicated awareness of impact of
decisions on others.

7

MARK

1

Lacked effort to comply with readiness
standards. Performance suffered due
to lack of compliance with health,
well-being, or readiness standards.
Indifferent to work-life balance.

3

Managed stress to prevent negative
impact on job performance and
emotional well-being. Maintained
compliance with medical and
readiness standards, mandated
training, and qualifications.
Complied with weight standards
throughout the entire period.
Demonstrated financial
responsibility. Used alcohol
responsibly, if at all. Participated in
physical fitness activities. Fostered
a positive work-life balance. Closely
monitored readiness compliance of
subordinates, if assigned.

5

Contributed to and demonstrated
commitment to a healthy workplace
culture by promoting physical and
emotional well-being. Actively
assisted others with readiness
standards. Held others accountable
for meeting readiness requirements,
took administrative action when
necessary.

7

MARK

1

Failed to assess personal strengths or
weaknesses. Lacked motivation or
aptitude to further knowledge or self
improvement.

3

Consistently assessed self and
prepared for greater responsibilities.
Sought and provided available
opportunities to develop and
acquire new skills. Showed
professional growth through
education or training.

5

Strong commitment to acquiring new
skills. Actively applied knowledge
and acquired skills beyond assigned
rating or specialty. Identified needs
and abilities of others; provided
opportunities for their professional
development.

7

MARK

1

Not a team player. Unwilling to
consider the ideas of others. Exerted
little or no influence over group;
resulted in disorganized efforts.

3

Facilitated cooperation, ownership,
trust, and strong relationships.
Encouraged other team members to
contribute ideas. Effectively
partnered to achieve goals.

5

Recognized team member efforts.
Strong team leader who achieved
results through collaboration, and
fostering cooperation among
subordinates and peers. Expertly
facilitated a group to achieve
maximum performance.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

CG-3788D (03/18)

Reset

Page 3 of 5

LEADERSHIP: Measures a member's ability to direct, guide, develop, influence, and support others in performing work.
RESPECT FOR OTHERS: The
degree to which the member
contributed to an environment
that supported diversity, fairness,
dignity, compassion, and
creativity.

ACCOUNTABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY: The degree
to which the member took
responsibility of assigned duties
and work area. Held self and
others accountable to Coast
Guard standards.

DIRECTING OTHERS: The
effectiveness of directing others
in the completion of tasks and
ensuring that tasking was
properly carried through.

EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION:
The degree to which the member
effectively utilized all forms of
communication in formal and
informal settings.

1

Showed apathy to the importance of
diversity, fairness, dignity,
compassion, and creativity. Treated
others unfairly or with bias.

3

Created an environment that
supported diversity, fairness,
dignity, compassion, and creativity.
Worked comfortably with others of
all ranks and positions. Personal
actions made positive contributions
to unit climate. Held self and others
accountable.

5

Demonstrated a strong personal
commitment to fair and equal
treatment of others. Made
noteworthy contributions to prevent
and eliminate prejudicial actions in
the work place. Actively championed
respectful and inclusive behavior.

7

MARK

1

Provided minimal support for policies
and initiatives. Projected a poor
attitude toward assigned work.
Unwilling to enforce military rules and
regulations.

3

Took ownership of assigned duties
and work area. Required self and
others to conform to military rules
and regulations. Standards
uniformly enforced. Initiated
appropriate administrative and
disciplinary action when necessary.

5

Demonstrated strong ethical
principles and convictions by
personal actions. Self-motivated,
results-oriented performer who
demonstrated accountability for self
and others. Outstanding leader who
ensured that standards were
uniformly enforced. Served as a
model to others. Appropriately
managed personnel, financial, and
material resources.

7

MARK

1

Had difficulty in effectively directing or
influencing others. Did not instill
confidence in others. Failed to
effectively manage difficult situations.

3

Leveraged abilities of others to
ensure that work standards were
maintained. Directed and mentored
others towards completion of
assigned tasks.

5

Skillfully used knowledge of group
dynamics to achieve maximum
performance. A strong and respected
leader who's clear tasking of others
achieved superior results.

7

MARK

1

Used inappropriate communication.
Unwilling to accept feedback.
Thoughts and directions expressed in
disorganized manner. Performance of
others suffered as a result of poor
communication.

3

Effectively utilized clear, concise,
and appropriate communication in
formal and informal settings to
accomplish tasks. Listened
attentively and accepted feedback
from others.

5

Wrote succinctly and produced
written materials that were clear and
articulate. Spoke in a concise,
effective, organized manner tailored
to the audience and situation.
Effectively presented complex
issues; communicated comfortably
with all levels of command. Put
others at ease and encouraged
feedback.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

CG-3788D (03/18)

Reset

Page 4 of 5

CONDUCT

UNSATISFACTORY

SATISFACTORY

The degree to which this member,
through personal behavior, conformed
to the rules, regulations, military
standards, and Coast Guard Core
Values, both on and off duty.

(Comments must be provided on a separate page. Comments should
be specific and sufficient to describe the conduct that led to an
“Unsatisfactory” mark.)

No NJP, CM, or civil conviction; promoted and supported respect for
rules, regulations, and civilian and military standards.

Failed to meet minimum standards as evidenced by NJP, CM, or civil
conviction; or brought discredit to the Coast Guard as evidenced by
adverse CG-3307 entries, including financial irresponsibility,
non-support to dependents, or alcohol incidents; or failed to conform
to civilian and military rules, regulations, and standards.

FUTURE POTENTIAL: Provide succinct, written comments describing the member's potential for future leadership responsibilities including their potential to
successfully serve in future special, independent, or command cadre assignments.
Comments (Limited to a maximum of five lines of text; comments are required, however all lines are not required to be used):

ADVANCEMENT POTENTIAL (Comments must be provided on a separate page for not ready and not recommended):
READY:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, at the time of this evaluation the individual has the capability and capacity to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade, and has satisfied all eligibility and qualification requirements for
the next higher grade. Required time in grade shall not be considered when determining overall eligibility for advancement.

NOT READY:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, at the time of this evaluation the individual is satisfactorily performing their
required duties but is not yet ready to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade, or has not satisfied all
eligibility and qualification requirements for the next higher grade. Required time in grade shall not be considered when
determining overall eligibility for advancement.

NOT RECOMMENDED:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, the individual should not be advanced to the next higher grade, regardless of
qualification or eligibility, due to negative conduct or poor performance, including an unsatisfactory conduct mark, or good order
and discipline issues.

Ready
SUPERVISOR:

Not Ready

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE EVALUATED THIS MEMBER AGAINST THE WRITTEN PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS AND I HAVE PROVIDED WRITTEN DOCUMENTATION FOR SUPPORT OF EACH MARK OF
1, 2, 3, 7, OR UNSATISFACTORY CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF GOOD CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY.

Not Recommended
SUPERVISOR'S NAME

Ready
MARKING
OFFICIAL:

RATE/RANK

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE EVALUATED THIS MEMBER AGAINST THE WRITTEN PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS AND I HAVE PROVIDED WRITTEN DOCUMENTATION FOR SUPPORT OF EACH MARK OF
1, 2, 3, 7, OR UNSATISFACTORY CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF GOOD CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY.

Not Ready
Not Recommended
MARKING OFFICIAL'S NAME

RATE/RANK

DATE

Concur
APPROVING
OFFICIAL:

Ready

Do Not Concur, changes made

Not Ready

Required comments for unsatisfactory conduct, not ready, or not recommended for advancement
attached on separate page.

Not Recommended

APPROVING OFFICIAL'S NAME
MEMBER:

RATE/RANK

DATE

I ACKNOWLEDGE HAVING BEEN COUNSELED ON AND REVIEWED MY ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORT FOR THIS PERIOD. I
HAVE BEEN BRIEFED ON AND FULLY UNDERSTAND THE SIGNIFICANCE THAT THE ASSIGNED MARKS HAVE ON MY GOOD
CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY. I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE 15 CALENDAR DAYS IN WHICH TO SUBMIT A MARKS APPEAL. I HAVE
BEEN BRIEFED ON AND FULLY UNDERSTAND THE ACTION TAKEN ON MY ADVANCEMENT RECOMMENDATION AND
LEADERSHIP POTENTIAL.

SIGNATURE

DATE

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
Authority: 14 USC 633 and COMDTINST M1000.2 (series).
Purpose: To provide feedback on enlisted member's performance and to assist in determining suitability for advancement, selection and assignments.
Routine Uses: Same.
Disclosure: Mandatory. Failure to disclose required information may adversely affect advancement, selection and assignment decisions.
CG-3788D (03/18)

Reset

Page 5 of 5

