DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

U.S. Coast Guard
ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORT
SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER

INSTRUCTIONS
• Use a pen or pencil.
• Darken the oval completely.

CORRECT MARK

• Do not make any stray marks on this form.

INCORRECT MARKS
●

Reference: (a) Enlisted Accessions, Evaluations, and Advancements, COMDTINST M1000.2 (series)
(b) Enlisted Evaluation System Procedures Manual, PSCINST 1611.2 (series)
MEMBER: Submit a copy of current Rating Performance Qualifications (RPQ); billet assigned competencies, watch quarter station bill assignments; collateral
duties; and significant achievements that are objective, accurate, and timely. Please note significant accomplishments or aspects of performance that occurred
during this marking period.
RATING CHAIN: Review reference (a), reference (b), and other pertinent directives that establish policies and procedures for completing enlisted evaluation
reports and assigning marks against written performance standards. All competencies within each performance factor must be evaluated.
COMMENTS: Written comments are required to support each mark of 1, 2, 3, 7, unsatisfactory conduct, and not ready or not recommended for advancement.
Supporting comments for a 1, 2, 3, or 7 should be in the space provided after each factor, are limited to two lines of text for each competency and should be
concise and provide specific examples of performance or behavior. Written comments for unsatisfactory conduct must be provided on a separate page and must
be specific and sufficient enough to fully describe the conduct that led to an unsatisfactory mark. Written comments for not ready or not recommended for
advancement must be provided on a separate page, and must be specific and sufficient enough to describe why the member is not ready or not recommended
for advancement.
FUTURE POTENTIAL: Required. Provide written, succinct comments describing potential for future leadership responsibilities, including potential to successfully
serve in future special, independent, or command cadre assignments, for all personnel. This block is not a substitute for a command endorsement for such
assignments; commands should seek to limit comments to the extent necessary to describe the member's future leadership potential.
SUPERVISOR: After observing and gathering input on member's performance and behavior, evaluate member's performance against the written performance
standards and recommend marks by darkening the appropriate ovals. Provide the completed report with recommended marks and written comments to the
Marking Official.
MARKING OFFICIAL: Review the marks recommended by the Supervisor and, considering other information on the member's performance and behavior,
recommend marks by darkening the appropriate ovals and entering the numerical equivalent in the “Mark” column. Provide the completed report with
recommended marks and written comments to the Approving Official.
APPROVING OFFICIAL: Review the marks recommended by the Marking Official. Marks not concurred with must be discussed with the Marking Official. To
change a mark, assign the new mark, and change the "Mark" column. Confirm that required written comments are provided when required. Ensure that the
member is counseled on the marks and the member signs the worksheet. Verify that the marks are entered into the Coast Guard Direct Access System and that
the evaluation is marked final within the timeframe specified in reference (a).
1. RATE, FIRST NAME, LAST NAME

2. EMPLOYEE ID #

3. UNIT NAME

4. PERIOD ENDING (MM/DD/YYYY)

5. PAY GRADE

E8
6. REASON (choose only one reason):
REGULAR:
ANNUAL

UNSCHEDULED (review references to determine when required):
DISCIPLINE
CHANGE OF COMMANDING OFFICER'S RECOMMENDATION
TRANSFER
REDUCTION (OTHER THAN DISCIPLINARY)
SERVICEWIDE EXAM (SWE)
CHANGE IN RATE
PERMANENT RELIEF FOR CAUSE
PROBATION
ADVANCEMENT (DAY PRIOR TO ADVANCEMENT)
CHANGE IN APPROVING OFFICIAL
RESERVE ADOS

CG-3788F (03/18)

Reset

Page 1 of 5

MILITARY: Measures a member's ability to bring credit to the Coast Guard through personal demeanor and professional actions.
MILITARY BEARING: The
degree to which the member
adhered to uniform and grooming
standards, and projected a
professional image that brought
credit to the Coast Guard.
Enforced standards for others.

CUSTOMS, COURTESIES, AND
TRADITIONS: The extent to
which the member conformed to
military customs, courtesies,
traditions, and protocols; set and
enforced standards for others.

1

Failed to consistently adhere to
uniform or grooming standards. Set
poor example for others. Failed to
address substandard performance of
subordinates, if assigned.

3

Complied with and enforced uniform
and grooming standards. Well
versed in military etiquette.
Projected a professional image that
brought credit to the Coast Guard.

5

Exemplified the highest uniform and
grooming standards. Demanded
exceptional performance from
others. Performance of subordinates,
if assigned, was exceptional.
Contributed in a leadership role in
civilian/military community.

7

MARK

1

Failed to adhere to or demonstrated
indifference towards military protocols
for customs, courtesies, or traditions.
Failed to address substandard
performance of subordinates, if
assigned.

3

Demonstrated thorough
understanding of military protocols
for customs, courtesies, and
traditions. Integrated protocols into
decision making processes, training
and daily leadership. Role model for
others. Enforced standards.

5

Actively advised others on
ceremonies and events.
Demonstrated outstanding
knowledge of protocols for customs,
courtesies, traditions, and Coast
Guard history. Performance of
subordinates, if assigned, was
exceptional.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

PERFORMANCE: Measures a member's willingness to acquire knowledge and the ability to use knowledge, skill, and direction to accomplish work.
QUALITY OF WORK: The
degree to which the member
utilized knowledge, skills, and
expertise to effectively organize
and prioritize tasks. Completed
quality work and met customer
needs.

TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:
The degree to which the member
demonstrated technical
competency and proficiency for
rating or current assignment.
Took responsibility for the
development of self and others.

INITIATIVE: The degree to which
the member was a self starter
and completed meaningful
accomplishments. Encouraged
others to do the same. Voluntarily
took on more than assigned
duties.

STRATEGIC THINKING: The
degree to which the member led
or influenced the development
and implementation of unit or
organizational objectives.
Member's understanding of
resource allocation decisions and
subsequent impacts on long-term
goals and plans.

CG-3788F (03/18)

1

Needed help in prioritizing routine
tasks. Work frequently failed to meet
expectations. Failed to stand proper
watches, if assigned. Repeatedly
failed to meet supervisor or customer
needs.

3

Used training, experience, and
proper procedures to produce
finished work of great quality.
Consistently met required timelines.
Worked efficiently. Stood
responsible watches, if assigned.
Prioritized and balanced needs of
supervisor and customers.

5

Consistently produced expert-quality
work that exceeded expectations and
standards. Successfully resolved
challenging situations while on duty.
Effectively set priorities for new or
complex tasks. Anticipated and
continually met customer needs.

7

MARK

1

Demonstrated below-standard
knowledge and skill for rate or current
assignment. Failed to acquire or
maintain required qualifications.

3

Demonstrated solid grasp of the
knowledge, skills, and expertise for
rate or current assignment. Met or
maintained required qualifications.
Developed or maintained a robust
plan to ensure adequate
professional development
opportunities for subordinates, if
assigned.

5

Demonstrated mastery of
knowledge, skills, and expertise for
current assignment. Achieved or
maintained advanced qualifications.
Technical expertise significantly
contributed to unit's mission success.
Led initiatives directly resulting in the
significant professional development
of others.

7

MARK

1

Did not seek additional responsibility
to complete command objectives.
Sought improvements only when
directed to do so. Potential
improvements in methods, service, or
products went unexplored.

3

Sought additional opportunities to
meet command objectives;
anticipated problems and took
prompt action to mitigate or resolve
them. Routinely took on additional
responsibilities without being asked.
Encouraged others to do the same.

5

Frequently sought additional
responsibility and performed duties
beyond expectations of role; worked
additional hours to complete
objectives with optimal results.
Inspired others to do the same.

7

MARK

1

Lack of strategic foresight led to
negative impacts on personnel,
mission objectives, or resource
allocation.

3

Influenced the development and
implementation of unit or
organizational objectives.
Demonstrated an understanding of
resource allocation decisions and
subsequent impacts on long-term
goals and plans. Focused on the
strategic intent of the current
mission and routinely solved issues
for future outcomes.

5

Led the development and
implementation of unit or
organizational objectives. Made
significant contributions to strategic
goals. Demonstrated exemplary
understanding of resource allocation
and impacts on long-term goals and
plans.

7

MARK

Reset

Page 2 of 5

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

PROFESSIONAL QUALITIES: Measures those qualities the Coast Guard values in its people.
DECISION MAKING AND
PROBLEM SOLVING: The
degree to which the member
made sound decisions and
provided valid recommendations
by using facts, experience, risk
assessment, and analytical
thought.

MILITARY READINESS: The
degree to which the member
effectively identified and
managed stress, and engaged in
activities that promoted physical
fitness and emotional well-being.
Ensured compliance with
personal readiness standards for
self and others.

SELF-AWARENESS AND
LEARNING: The degree to which
the member continued to assess
self, develop professionally,
improve current skills and
knowledge, and acquire new
skills.

PARTNERING: The degree to
which the member collaborated
across organizational boundaries
with stakeholders to enhance and
execute assigned duties and
tasks.

1

Failed to make necessary decisions or
jumped to conclusions without
considering facts, alternatives, or
impact. Did not resolve issues within
own authority or promptly refer others
to the Command.

3

Demonstrated analytical thought
and exercised appropriate risk
management in making decisions.
Anticipated problems and took
prompt actions to seek resolution.
Actions indicated awareness of
impact and implications of decisions
on others. Encouraged innovation
and creative thinking.

5

Repeatedly made sound decisions
and provided valid recommendations
for problems and issues. Made
noteworthy contributions to process
improvement and service delivery.
Expertly managed a work
environment that encouraged
creative thinking and innovation.

7

MARK

1

Lacked effort to comply or assist
others with readiness standards.
Performance suffered due to lack of
compliance with health, well-being, or
readiness standards. Indifferent to
work-life balance. Poor wellness or
readiness example for others.

3

Managed stress to prevent negative
impact on job performance and
emotional well-being. Maintained
compliance with medical and
readiness standards, mandated
training, and qualifications.
Complied with weight standards
throughout the entire period.
Demonstrated financial
responsibility. Used alcohol
responsibly, if at all. Participated in
physical fitness activities.
Demonstrated genuine concern for
the total well-being of others. Held
others accountable for readiness.

5

Consistently ensured unit's
compliance with medical and
readiness standards, mandated
training, and qualifications; took
administrative action when
necessary. Actively supported
additional opportunities for crew
wellness. Demonstrated a significant
commitment to wellness and
resiliency programs.

7

MARK

1

Failed to assess personal strengths or
weaknesses. Lacked commitment to
personal or professional development
of self or others.

3

Demonstrated professional growth
through self-assessment, education,
and training. Planned and executed
professional development
opportunities for others.

5

Promoted a workplace culture that
inspired members toward
development. Mentored and held
others accountable for their personal
and professional growth. Assumed
greater responsibility through leading
professional development
opportunities for others.

7

MARK

1

Failed to maintain or develop
partnerships. Little engagement
outside assigned responsibilities.
Attitude or personality was detrimental
to building beneficial working
relationships.

3

Developed and maintained positive
working relationships to enhance
and support mission success.
Encouraged appropriate level of
contact with internal and external
stakeholders to ensure efficient use
of resources.

5

Sought new strategic partnerships to
improve efficiency and conserve
resources. Championed
collaboration across organizational
boundaries. Strengthened existing
working relationships.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

CG-3788F (03/18)

Reset

Page 3 of 5

LEADERSHIP: Measures a member's ability to direct, guide, develop, influence, and support others in performing work.
RESPECT FOR OTHERS: The
degree to which the member
fostered an environment that
supported diversity, fairness,
dignity, compassion, and
creativity.

ACCOUNTABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY: The degree
to which the member took
responsibility of assigned duties
and work area. Held self and
others accountable to Coast
Guard standards.

WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT:
The degree to which the member
effectively managed, mentored,
and directed assigned personnel
in accordance with Coast Guard
policy.

EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION:
The degree to which the member
effectively utilized all forms of
communication in formal and
informal settings.

CHIEFS MESS LEADERSHIP
AND PARTICIPATION: The
degree to which this SCPO
supported the Chiefs Mess and
the MCPOCG's Mission, Vision,
Guiding Principles, and Standing
Orders.

1

Treated individuals unfairly or with
bias. Did not hold self or others
accountable for their actions.

3

Demanded an environment that
supported diversity, fairness,
dignity, compassion, and creativity.
Provided personal leadership to
foster a command climate that
promoted inclusion, equity, and
respect. Held self and others
accountable.

5

Demonstrated a strong personal
commitment to fair and equal
treatment of others. Championed a
culture in which diversity was valued
and respected. Consistently
campaigned against prejudicial
actions or behavior.

7

MARK

1

Did not meet assigned duty
obligations. Failed to hold self or
others accountable for actions.
Inconsistently enforced military rules
and regulations.

3

Held self and others accountable for
assigned duties, performance, and
behavior; adhered to military rules
and regulations. Enforced standards
uniformly. Did not shy away from
appropriate administrative or
disciplinary actions. Expertly
managed personnel, financial, and
material resources.

5

Beyond reproach when handling
assigned duties; expertly managed
all responsibilities and obligations.
Well versed in all military rules and
regulations regarding administrative
and disciplinary actions.

7

MARK

1

Failed to demonstrate understanding
of Coast Guard personnel policies and
regulations. Unable to direct personnel
to achieve acceptable results.

3

Consistently demonstrated thorough
knowledge of all Coast Guard
personnel policies and regulations
regarding workforce management.
Effectively directed and managed
personnel to achieve mission
success. Actively involved in
mentoring.

5

Provided sound recommendations to
command regarding personnel
actions, which achieved optimal
results. Subject Matter Expert on the
application of Coast Guard policies
and regulations concerning
workforce management.

7

MARK

1

Used inappropriate communication.
Written correspondence and reports
often required correction. Unwilling to
accept feedback; failed to listen.
Performance of others suffered as a
result of poor communication.

3

Effectively communicated by
producing clear, concise
correspondence and reports. Used
appropriate language in all forms of
communication. Effectively
presented complex issues to all
audiences. Listened attentively.
Conscious of impact of non-verbal
communication. Accepted and
provided constructive feedback.

5

Expertly communicated in all formal
and informal settings. Written work
met highest standards. Verbal and
written communications were clear
and concise. Presentations were
well-rehearsed and appropriate for
audience.

7

MARK

1

Did not participate as a member of a
Chiefs Mess. Did not support or
demonstrate sufficient knowledge of
the Command, CMC, COTM, and
MCPOCG's Mission, Vision, Guiding
Principles, and Standing Orders.

3

Participated as an active member of
a Chiefs Mess. Actively supported
Command, CMC, COTM, and
MCPOCG's Mission, Vision,
Guiding Principles, and Standing
Orders.

5

Exemplified leadership within a
Chiefs Mess and actively supported
COTM goals and initiatives.
Championed programs in support of
the Command, CMC, COTM, and
MCPOCG's Mission, Vision, Guiding
Principles, and Standing Orders.

7

MARK

Comments (Limited to a maximum of two lines of text per competency):

CG-3788F (03/18)

Reset

Page 4 of 5

CONDUCT

UNSATISFACTORY

SATISFACTORY

The degree to which this member,
through personal behavior, conformed
to the rules, regulations, military
standards, and Coast Guard Core
Values, both on and off duty.

(Comments must be provided on a separate page. Comments should
be specific and sufficient to describe the conduct that led to an
“Unsatisfactory” mark.)

No NJP, CM, or civil conviction; promoted and supported respect for
rules, regulations, and civilian and military standards.

Failed to meet minimum standards as evidenced by NJP, CM, or civil
conviction; or brought discredit to the Coast Guard as evidenced by
adverse CG-3307 entries, including financial irresponsibility,
non-support to dependents, or alcohol incidents; or failed to conform
to civilian and military rules, regulations, and standards.

FUTURE POTENTIAL: Provide succinct, written comments describing the member's potential for future leadership responsibilities including their potential to
successfully serve in future special, independent, or command cadre assignments.
Comments (Limited to a maximum of five lines of text; comments are required, however all lines are not required to be used):

ADVANCEMENT POTENTIAL (Comments must be provided on a separate page for not ready and not recommended):
READY:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, at the time of this evaluation the individual has the capability and capacity to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade, and has satisfied all eligibility and qualification requirements for
the next higher grade. Required time in grade shall not be considered when determining overall eligibility for advancement.

NOT READY:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, at the time of this evaluation the individual is satisfactorily performing their
required duties but is not yet ready to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade, or has not satisfied all
eligibility and qualification requirements for the next higher grade. Required time in grade shall not be considered when
determining overall eligibility for advancement.

NOT RECOMMENDED:

Assign this mark if, in the view of the rating official, the individual should not be advanced to the next higher grade, regardless of
qualification or eligibility, due to negative conduct or poor performance, including an unsatisfactory conduct mark, or good order
and discipline issues.

Ready
SUPERVISOR:

Not Ready

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE EVALUATED THIS MEMBER AGAINST THE WRITTEN PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS AND I HAVE PROVIDED WRITTEN DOCUMENTATION FOR SUPPORT OF EACH MARK OF
1, 2, 3, 7, OR UNSATISFACTORY CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF GOOD CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY.

Not Recommended
SUPERVISOR'S NAME

Ready
MARKING
OFFICIAL:

RATE/RANK

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE EVALUATED THIS MEMBER AGAINST THE WRITTEN PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS AND I HAVE PROVIDED WRITTEN DOCUMENTATION FOR SUPPORT OF EACH MARK OF
1, 2, 3, 7, OR UNSATISFACTORY CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF GOOD CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY.

Not Ready
Not Recommended
MARKING OFFICIAL'S NAME

RATE/RANK

DATE

Concur
APPROVING
OFFICIAL:

Ready

Do Not Concur, changes made

Not Ready

Required comments for unsatisfactory conduct, not ready, or not recommended for advancement
attached on separate page.

Not Recommended

APPROVING OFFICIAL'S NAME
MEMBER:

RATE/RANK

DATE

I ACKNOWLEDGE HAVING BEEN COUNSELED ON AND REVIEWED MY ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORT FOR THIS PERIOD. I
HAVE BEEN BRIEFED ON AND FULLY UNDERSTAND THE SIGNIFICANCE THAT THE ASSIGNED MARKS HAVE ON MY GOOD
CONDUCT ELIGIBILITY. I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE 15 CALENDAR DAYS IN WHICH TO SUBMIT A MARKS APPEAL. I HAVE
BEEN BRIEFED ON AND FULLY UNDERSTAND THE ACTION TAKEN ON MY ADVANCEMENT RECOMMENDATION AND
LEADERSHIP POTENTIAL.

SIGNATURE

DATE

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
Authority: 14 USC 633 and COMDTINST M1000.2 (series).
Purpose: To provide feedback on enlisted member's performance and to assist in determining suitability for advancement, selection and assignments.
Routine Uses: Same.
Disclosure: Mandatory. Failure to disclose required information may adversely affect advancement, selection and assignment decisions.
CG-3788F (03/18)

Reset

Page 5 of 5

