Performance of Duties: Measures an Officer's ability to manage, get things done, and communicate in a positive, clear, and convincing manner.
 Planning & Preparedness - Ability to anticipate, determine goals, identify relevant information, set priorities and deadlines, and create a shared vision of the unit's and Coast Guard's future.
 Using Resources - Ability to manage time, materials, information, money, and people (i.e. all CG components as well as external publics).
 Results / Effectiveness - Quality, quantity, timeliness and impact of work. 
 Adaptability - Ability to modify work methods and priorities in response to new information, changing conditions, political realities, or unexpected obstacles.
 Professional Competence - Ability to acquire, apply, and share technical and administrative knowledge and skills associated with description of duties (includes operational aspects such as marine safety, seamanship, airmanship, SAR, etc., as appropriate).
 Speaking and Listening - Ability to speak effectively and listen to understand.
 Writing - Ability to express facts and ideas clearly and convincingly.

Leadership Skills: Measures and Officer's ability to support, develop, direct and influence others in performing work.
 Looking Out For Others - Ability to consider and respond to others personal needs, capabilities, and achievements; support for and application of work-life concepts and skills.
 Developing Others - Ability to use mentoring, counseling, and training to provide opportunities for others' professional development.
 Directing Others - Ability to influence or direct others in accomplishing tasks or missions.
 Teamwork - Ability to manage, lead, and participate in teams, encourage cooperation, and develop esprit de corps. 
 Workplace Climate - Ability to create and maintain a positive environment where differences of all personnel are included, valued, and respected in alignment with Civil Rights and Human Resource policies. Capacity to optimize diverse perspectives to improve team contributions to mission performance.
 Evaluations - The extent to which an officer, as Reported-on Officer and rater, conducted or required others to conduct accurate, timely evaluations for enlisted, civilian and officer personnel.

Personal and Professional Qualities: Measures an Officer's qualities which illustrate the individual's character.
 Initiative - Ability to originate and act on new ideas, pursue opportunities to learn and develop, and seek responsibility without guidance and supervision. 
 Judgment - Ability to make sound decisions and provide valid recommendations by using facts, experience, political acumen, common sense, risk assessment, and analytical thought.
 Responsibility - Ability to act ethically, courageously, and dependably and inspire the same in others; accountability for own and subordinates' actions. 
 Professional Presence - Ability to bring credit to the Coast Guard through one's actions, competence, demeanor, and appearance. Extent to which an officer displayed the Coast Guard's core values of honor, respect, and devotion to duty.
 Health and Well Being - Ability to invest in the Coast Guard's future by caring for the physical health, safety, and emotional well-being of self and others.
